and the Lord spoke to Moses and Aaron
when a man has on the skin of his body a
swelling a scab or a bright spot and it
becomes on the skin of his body like a
leprous saw then he shall be brought to
Aaron the priest or to one of his sons
the priests the priests shall examine
the saw on the skin of the body and if
the hair on the saw has turned white and
the saw appears to be deeper than the
skin of his body
it is a leprous saw then the priest
shall examine him and pronounce him
unclean but if the bright spot is white
on the skin of his body and does not
appear to be deeper than the skin and
its hair has not turned white
then the priest shall isolate the one
who has the soul seven days and the
priest shall examine him on the seventh
day and indeed if the sore appears to be
as it was and the sore has not spread on
the skin then the priest shall isolate
him another seven days then the priest
shall examine him again on the seventh
day and indeed if the saw has faded and
the saw has not spread on the skin then
the priest shall pronounce him clean it
is only escape and he shall wash his
clothes and be clean but if the scab
should at all spread over the skin after
he has been seen by the priest for his
cleansing he shall be seen by the priest
again and if the priest sees that the
scab has indeed spread on the skin then
the priest shall pronounce him unclean
it is leprosy when the leprous saw is on
a person then he shall be brought to the
priest and the priest shall examine him
and indeed if the swelling on the skin
is white and it has turned the hair
and there is a spot of raw flesh in the
swelling it is an old leprosy on the
skin of his body a priest who pronounced
him unclean and shall not isolate him
for he is unclean and if leprosy breaks
out all over the skin and the leprosy
covers all the skin of the one who has
the saw from his head to his foot
wherever the priest looks then the
priest shall consider and indeed if the
leprosy has covered all his body he
shall pronounce him clean who has the
saw it has all turned white he is clean
but when raw flesh appears on him he
shall be unclean and the priest shall
examine the raw flesh and pronounce him
to be unclean for the raw flesh is
unclean it is leprosy or if the raw
flesh changes and turns white again he
shall come to the priest and the priest
shall examine him and indeed if the saw
has turned white then the priest shall
pronounce him clean who has the soul he
is clean if the body develops a boil in
the skin and it is healed and in the
place of the boil there comes a white
swelling or a bright spot reddish white
then it shall be shown to the priest and
if when the priest sees it it indeed
appears deeper than the skin and its
hair has turned white the priest shall
pronounce him uncleaned it is a leprous
soul which has broken out of the bowl
but if the priest examines it and indeed
there are no white hairs in it and it is
not deeper than the skin but has faded
then the priest shall isolate him seven
days and if it should at all spread over
the skin then the priest shall pronounce
him unclean it is a leprous soul but if
the bright spot stays in one place and
has not spread it is the scar of the
boil and the priest shall pronounce him
clean or if the body receives a burn on
its skin by fire and the raw flesh of
the burn becomes a bright spot reddish
white or white then the priest shall
examine it and indeed if the hair of the
bright spot is turned white and it
appears deeper than the skin it is
leprosy broken out in the bone therefore
the priest shall pronounce him unclean
it is a lip restore but if the priest
examines it and indeed there are no
white hairs in the bright spot and it is
not deeper than the skin but has faded
then the priest shall isolate him seven
days and the priest shall examine him on
the seventh day if it has at all spread
over the skin then the priest shall
pronounce him unclean it is a leprous
soul but if the bright spot stays in one
place and has not spread on the skin but
has faded it is a swelling from the
burned the priest shall pronounce him
clean for it is the scar from the burden
if a man or woman has a sore on the head
or the beard then the priest shall
examine the soul and indeed if it
appears deeper than the skin and there
is in it thin yellow hair
then the priest to pronounce him unclean
it is a scaly leprosy of the head or
beard but if the priest examines the
scaly saw and indeed it does not appear
deeper than the skin and there is no
black hair in it then the priest shall
isolate the one who has the scale seven
days and on the seventh day the priest
shall examine the soul and indeed if the
scale has not spread and there is no
yellow hair in it and the scale does not
appear deeper than the skin he shall
shave himself but the scale he shall not
shave and the priest shall isolate the
one who has the scale another seven days
on the seventh day the priest shall
examine the scale and indeed if the
scale has not spread over the skin and
does not appear deeper than the skin
then the priest shall pronounce him
clean he shall wash his clothes and be
clean but if the scale should at all
spread over the skin after his cleansing
and the priest shall examine him and
indeed if the scale has spread over the
skin the priests need not see for yellow
hair he is unclean but if the scale
appears to be at a standstill and there
is black hair grown up in it
the scale has healed he is clean and the
priest shall pronounce him clean if a
man or a woman has bright spots on the
skin of the body specifically white
bright spots then the priest shall look
and indeed if the bright spots on the
skin of the body are dull white
it is a white spot that grows on the
skin
he is king as for the man whose hair has
fallen from his head he is bald but he
is clean he whose hair has fallen from
his forehead he is bald on the forehead
but he is clean and if there is on the
bald head or bald forehead a reddish
white sore it is leprosy breaking out on
his bald head or his bald forehead then
the priest shall examine it and indeed
if the swelling of the saw is reddish
white on his bald head on his bald
forehead as the appearance of leprosy on
the skin of the body he is a leprous man
he is unclean the priest shall surely
pronounce him unclean his soul is on his
head
now the leper on whom the saw is his
clothes shall be torn and his head bare
and he shall cover his mustache and cry
unclean unclean he shall be unclean all
the days he has the saw he shall be
unclean he is unclean and he shall dwell
alone his dwelling shall be outside the
camp
also if a garment has a leprous plague
in it whether it is a woollen garment or
a linen garment whether it is in the
warp or woof of linen or wool whether in
leather or in anything made of leather
and if the plague is greenish or reddish
in the garment or in the leather whether
in the warp or in the wolf or in
anything made of leather it is a leprous
plague and shall be shown to the priest
the priest shall examine the plague and
isolate that which has the plague seven
days
and he shall examine the plague on the
seventh day if the plague has spread in
the garment either in the war or in the
wolf in the leather or in anything made
of leather the plague is an active
leprosy it is unclean he shall therefore
burn that garment in which is the plague
where the warper wolf in wool or in
linen or anything of leather for it is
an active leprosy the garment shall be
burned in the fire but if the priest
examines it and indeed the plague has
not spread in the garment either in the
war or in the wolf or in anything made
of leather then the priest shall command
that they wash the thing in which is the
plague and he shall isolated another
seven days then the priest shall examine
the plague after it has been washed and
indeed if the plague has not changed its
color though the plague has not spread
it is unclean and you shall burn it in
the fire it continues eating away
whether the damage is outside or inside
if the priest examines it and indeed the
plague has faded after washing it then
he shall tear it out of the garment
whether out of the warp or out of a wolf
or out of the leather but if it appears
again in the garment either in the warp
or in the wolf or in anything made of
leather it is a spreading plague
you shall burn with fire that in which
is the plague and if you wash the
garment by the warp or wolf or whatever
is made of leather if the plague has
disappeared from it then it shall be
washed a second time and shall be clean
this is the law of the leprous plague in
a garment of wool or linen either in the
walk off or in anything made of leather
to pronounce Italy or to pronounce it
unclean
[Music]